Programs:

1. Program written for Quiz1 is in DSJHUcapstone_Quiz1.R
2. Program written for the milestone report is in DSJHUcapstone_Milestone.R, and the milestone report is written in DSJHUcapstone_Milestone.Rmd
3. The first training trial is written in DSJHUcapstone_TrainingTrial.R
4. Some unused codes are stored in DSJHUcapstone_Archive.R
5. Program for the intermediate data generation is written in DSJHUcapstone_intermediate.R
6. Katz's back-off model is tried in the DSJHUcapstone_Backoff.R, but it is discard for not much improvement
7. DSJHUcapstone_DataChoice.R is used to choose appropriate data and generate final data to use
8. TrainingDataGeneration.R and TrainingDataGeneration2.R are used to generate all kinds of training data to use
9. DSJHUcapstone_Evaluation.R is used to generate testset to evaluate the result during the training process
10. The data generated by FinalDataGeneration.R is not used, because it is hard to evaluate (no testset) and big to use
11. Some R program files (not RData file) have a tailing 2 in their names, because the program was run on two machines, thus two versions are generated
12. Makefaster.R is used to presort and shrink the final data to make it small and faster to use
13. The compare.R and compare2.R are used to debug problems

Data:

1. en_US.news_alt.txt is generated from en_US.news.txt by replacing the end-of-line character with #
2. en_US.blogs.txt, en_US.twitter.txt, en_US.news_alt.txt are then splitted into txt files twit0-twit9, news0-news9, blog0-blog9
3. The txt files got are then transformed into TermDocumentMatrix, rolled up to frequency tables of the n-grams, and saved in RData files twit0-twit9, news0-news9, blog0-blog9
4. The RData files got are then merged and saved in RData files wholetwits, wholetwits2, wholenewss, wholenewss2, wholeblogs, wholeblogs2
5. The merged RData files got are then normalized and saved in RData files normtwits, normtwits2, normnewss, normnewss2, normblogs, normblogs2
6. The normalized RData files are then splitted according to gram and string order and saved in 36 RData files, with names like gram2.part1.twits, gram4.part2.newss2
7. Those 36 RData files are combined in different combinations to generate all kinds of training data for appropriate data to choose
8. dr.RData (for twits) and dr_blogs.RData are generated when trying Katz's back-off model
9. RData files with tailing "grams" and leading "unigram_" are generated in DSJHUcapstone_DataChoice.R to try different data choice
10. testset.RData is the testset generated in DSJHUcapstone_Evaluation.R for result evaluation during the training process (evaluation.txt is generated during the process)
11. Finally the RData files twits_newssgrams and unigram_twits_newss are used as the final data, finaldata_thin.RData
12. To make the online processing faster, finaldata_thin.RData is presorted and splitted into the matching part and the last word part, and is saved in finalterms_thin.RData
13. finalterms_thin.RData is further shrunk to finalterms_thin2.RData to make the file size smaller, which is the final data used